# Automatic Liver Segmentation and Visualization for CT Images
>  Törecan Çelik, School of Software - Beijing Institute of Technology 

>  **Thesis Study**

Computer vision is very important and necessary science for the medical field. Generally, computer vision intends to help the medicine staff to decide for any diagnosis. There are many diagnosis systems and techniques with computer vision have been developed numerous diseases of organs. Some of these systems are interactive which means manual, semi-automatic or full-automatic. Especially medical imaging techniques have been found such as Magnetic Resonance and Computed Tomography which used to diagnosis any diseases. MR or CT images help to understand problems of patients by doctors. In order to increase the helping more, there are so many researching papers has been publishing related with the vital organ in the human body such as brain, liver, heart, lungs, etc. This study aims the liver segmentation and visualization in order to give more precise and accurate results to doctors or staffs. Liver cancer is among the most frequently observed types of cancer diseases and many patients die because of liver cancer worldwide in every year. The statics show us how serious the liver diseases. In this study consists of three stages. These are the Rough segmentation, Improved Grow-Cut (IGC) and visualization.  In computer vision, image segmentation is the process which extracts objects from a digital image. The main goal of segmentation subtracts the concerned objects from rest of the image to assists people who care about related objects. Manual segmentation systems generally need expert clinician so that type interactive systems consume time and requiring much effort. Also, clinicians can make the mistake then that mistakes can affect the results. However this automatic liver segmentation method based on thresholding then it can be over segmented or under segmented. To prevent this over segmentation or under-segmentation we used Improved Grow-Cut method. Grow-Cut method is a popular segmentation method but it is an interactive method because of that researchers has proposed an Improved Grow-Cut method. This method generates the labels on the image automatically. Visualization is a technique which creates any visual object. Visualization Toolkit (VTK) is an open-source, freely available software system for 3D computer graphics, image processing, and visualization. In this study, we used the VTK toolkit to create 3-D liver models from segmented Computed Tomography (CT) images for improving the understandability of images. 

### Keywords: Improved Grow-Cut (IGC); Computed Tomography (CT); Visualization; Visualization Toolkit (VTK) 
